---
title:  "Week 5 Writeup"
---

# Week 5   
This week covered windows kernel and internals. Specifically, rootkits, bootkits, and tools used to combat these types of exploits.   
### The Kernel   
The kernel is the where system operations are located that are used to communicate with the hardware of a system. When an application asks the system to do something, it triggers a call to a system call in the kernel that communicates with the hardware for that task. For example, if the user issues a command to query the files in a directory, the windows kernel call would be NTQueryDirectoryFile would be used to communicate to the hardware from the user program. Kernel. Any driver in the kernel has access to any part of memory.   
### Rootkits   
A **Rootkit** is defined as malware that actively conceals its existence and actions from users and the system. They allow a piece of malware to potentially stay hidden for a long time, typically by entering the kernel. As mentioned, any kernel driver can access any part of memory. A rootkit would exploit this to keep itself as hidden as possible and prevent attempts to remove it's influence. It can do this by watching for attempts by AV software to scan an infected kernel and spoofing a clean kernel, or by killing software that would attempt to remove it.   
### Hooking   
**Hooking** is the act of tying some malware to a kernel call, to have malicious code ran when the call is requested, and then returning control to the hooked call. It can be likened to a person intercepting and stealing cargo from A to B, and only stealing desired items so as not to arouse suspicion.   
There are a few ways to achieve hooking. Inline hooks, for example, modify the first few bytes of some assembly code to point to malicious instructions, which, once the malicous code executes, would return to the originally requested instruction. Import table hooks are another way to achieve this, where a pointer to some legitimate kernel instruction is changed to point to a malicious instruction. The master boot record (MBR) can also be modified to achieve hooking. This form of hooking results in bootkits.   
### Bootkits   
Bootkits are malware that are loaded from the MBR. Usually, the malware modifies the initial sectors of an MBR to instruct it to run the malicious code that will initialize the bootkit. It would then proceed with normal operation of the MBR and startup. The bootkit then has low level access to the system that would allow it to operate in secret and achieve persistence, similar to how a rootkit works. It can do this by file forging, which can forge "clean" files when an AV attempts to check some file. It also helps to prevent detection because the malicious code is in the boot sector and not in a file written to disk, which is what AV software tend to check.   
### Tools   
**WinDbg** - Debugger for windows. It can be used to step through assembly instructions. Can be used to see when a file attempts to modify the kernel, if appropriate breakpoints set.   
**Teluka** - Used to find rootkits. Checks kernel calls and returns calls that may have been tampered. It does this by checking if the addresses within that call correspond to the range expected within the NTKernel. Can restore kernel calls.   
**LiveKD** - This tool reads the kernel memory and dispays it to the user. 