---
title:  "Week 7 Writeup"
---

# Week 7   
This week covered web security. Topics pertaining to the web as a way to deliver malware, web attack vectors and defenses, and some tools for the subset of security.   
### Malware delivery   
With the growth of the web, malicious agents have increasingly used it as a means to distribute malware and attack targets. As the web has aged, so has the sophistication of attacks utilizing the web as a delivery mechanism. Early on, malware was delivered through popups and generic phishing attempts. Popups sought to have the user install malware by tricking them into clicking the popup. As time passed, phishing began to improve by not looking as suspicious as it had been. Cross-site scripting also began to take shape, where a script could execute on a site it did not originate from. Browser exploits and third party exploits began to increase as time went on. With browser exploits, the malicious actor could gain control of a system. Even today, attacks are getting more sophistiated, with man-in-the-browser attacks and HTML-5 attacks being perpetrated.   
Malware is typically injected in different points. It can be found at the lowest layer, the HTTP layer, where malware can have more control since it is at such a low level. HTML can also be used as an injection point through the browser. Javascript is a prime target for injection since it can execute commands from the script engine the operating system uses.   
### Attack Vectors   
One of the most vulnerable attack points to a system turns out to be the user of that system. Social engineering is the act of manipulating a user to infect a system they use themselves. This can occur because most users tend to be impatient, lazy, and love clicking links. A malicious actor can exploit these traits and have the user install and run their malware with ease.   
Phishing is the act of copying the design of a trusted site to try and fool a user into attempting to login to the fake site. This will yield the attacker login credentials, or it can give the attacker a way to persuade the user to download something, since the user thinks they are on a trusted domain. A malicious site can have a valid SSL certificate which can fool users.   
Another attack vector is through SEO poisoning. Google and other search engines display search results using al algorithm that will display relevant results first. Malicious actors use this fact to get their infected site far up the search results page to get more views and infect more users.   
### Defenses   
The greatest defense against these threats is user education. If the user is educated about threats, they are less likely to leave themselves open for attack. However, having all users educated about attack vectors is impossible.   
There are some programs which provide URL reputation. They display a score in a search results page that let the user know whether the page may be malicious or not. These are useful for any user.   
There are also safe URL shorteners. These are URL shorteners that are provided by trusted companies to ensure there is no malicious file behind the URL. They also allow the user to see the elongated URL to manually check if a URL is malicious.   
### Tools   
**WebGoat** - This is a test website offered by the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). It's intention is to give a person a playground to test various exploits and aspects of security.