---
title:  "Week 1 Writeup"
---

# Week 1

This week was the classes introduction to malware, what exactly it is, how it effects users, and ways of detecting it.  
**What is malware**  
Malware is the concatenation of "malicious" and "software". This gives one an idea of it's purpose. It is intended to harm the user in some way. For example, keyloggers are a type of malware that logs the users keypresses with the intention of stealing sensitive data.  
Malware is created by different groups, the biggest creators being state-sponsored groups and organized crime. Reasons for malware vary, but it is usually for monetary or political gain.  
**Anti-malware**  
Due to these circumstances, anti-malware research is ongoing to combat malware and it's associated risks. The role of an anti-malware researcher is to understand and describe a threat as well as develop countermeasures to malware. Countermeasures usually come in three flavors: stop-gap, mid-term, and long-term. Each describe the time frame of a solutions effectiveness. For example, a stop-gap is meant to be a quick solution to some malware, albeit at the cost of longevity. It is more likely to be worked around by malware creators than if a long-term countermeasure were developed.  
**Types of malware**  
Malware come in different flavors. Viruses are designed to spread from host to host and replicate itself. A virus may be parasitic, in that it depends on other files, and it may also be polymorphic, meaning the code can change, which makes it harder to detect. A worm is a type of virus that spreads quickly.  
Trojans are a class of malware that are designed to give a malicious actor access to an infected machine. This can be done through backdoors, keyloggers, password stealers or bots.  
There are also potentially unwanted programs that are unwanted tools usually bundled with some software installer.  
**Vectors**  
Malware can be spread in various ways. For example, a USB stick can be infected and made to run a program when plugged into a computer to infect that computer. With the advent of smart phones, mobile app stores are another way malware can be spread. PDF files can become infected and made to execute code to infect a computer. This is also the case with certain office files, like excel sheets with macros.  
**Malware replication**  
Malware replication is the process of studying a sample of malware. The researcher wants to replicate the malware's code to better understand and counteract the malware. A researcher should utilize an isolated environment and a hardened VM to replicate safely and not infect one's machine. Sometimes malware needs bait, that will trigger the malware to run.  
A researcher should pay close attention to what changes occured during replication, and be able to decipher which changes were due to the malware and which were as a consequence to normal operating circumstances.  
**Tools of the trade**  
Some of the tools used for successful replication are tools that can simulate an ideal environment for malware to act, or tools to monitor the system during malware execution. Although some of these tools are built for the purpose of malware research, other tools are simple built-in commands found in windows.  
  *AT - Built-in command that allows one to set and view scheduled tasks in a windows environment.  
  *attrib - Built-in command to set and get attributes of a file or folder.  
  *ipconfig - built-in command to view networking settings.  
  *Process Monitor - Program to capture real time process / thread activity, file system activity, and registry activity. Useful for noticing when malware is making changes to the system.
  *Process Explorer - Program to see what process is opening a file or program. Allows for tree view which enables one to see what actions a process or program is responsible for.
  *fakenet - Spoofs an internet connection to enable a piece of malware to run normally if it expects an open connection.
  *Antispy - Program that views processes and detects malware. 
  *Flypaper - Blocks all internet connections and attemptes to exit a process / thread.  
 