---
title:  "Week 4 Writeup"
---

# Week 4   
This week covered vulnerabilities and exploits, specifically, what they are, differences between the two, and tools used for this subset of security.   
### Vulnerabilities and Exploits   
**Vulnerabilities** are any means an attacker can use to cause a program to generate undefined behavior, which is any behavior that the author of the program did not intend. We studied four general categories of vulnerabilities: configuration (e.g. a weak password), logic (e.g. authorization issues), storage (e.g. inadequate encryption), and input validation (e.g. memory corruption or injection). Using vulnerabilities, one can gain a foothold into a system to run one's own code. This is known as exploiting a vulnerability.   
An **Exploit** is when an attacker utilizes a vulnerability to execute their own code in a system. This can be as harmless as starting up a system program, like calculator, or can have worse consequences, like installing a keylogger. Exploits have two parts: a vulnerability trigger, and a payload. The vulnerability trigger invokes the software bug to gain conrol of a program, and the payload is the actions that are taken once control is gained. Generally, this is some assembly code to execute a shell.   
### Stack Overflow   
The lessons this week went over an example of a stack overflow attack. The piece of code utilized memcpy to copy over some user defined input, however it did not do a bounds check. The lesson showed how one can input more data then expected to have one's code on the stack that has the return address. Once user input is overwritten into the return address, program control is gained.   
Now that program control has been achieved, the next step is to get code execution. There are four steps to do this: conducting a crash triage, determining the return address offset, positioning our shellcode, and finding the address of our shellcode.   
  * **Crash Triage:** The attacker needs to determine what registers they control i.e. what registers contain attacker-controlled data and what registers point to attacker-controlled data. Is attacker controlled data on the Stack or Heap? If so, do they control those stack frames? The attacker also needs to find where is the vulnerability and if the crash was caused by exploit mitigation.   
  * **Determine return address offset:** Generally, this is done using some debugger. The attacker needs to find the number of bytes between the buffer and the return address. Doing this will give the return address.   
  * **Position shellcode:** This is done by filling the buffer with useless data that contains the shellcode. This is to mitigate guessing. By filling the stack, one guarentees that the shellcode is available within it. When positioned correctly, the esp register will contain the code.   
  * **Find address of shellcode:** To do this, the attacker will utilizea jmp esp call. The attacker first finds this call using the debugger and then places that address within the stack to jmp to esp. This causes the instruction pointer to jump to the esp register, which is where the shellcode will be located and which will then execute.   

### Tools
**WinDbg** - Stands for Windows Debugger, often called windbag. This tool allows the user to walk through a piece of code, and disassemble binary instructions for one to analyze. This is an example of a debugger one could use in the above example. It allows for looking at the registers and their contents during execution.   
**Page Heap** - A special heap that allows for debugging. It gives a flag to each register to keep track of when it is called and freed. This helps keep track of crashes.   
