---
title:  "Week 9 & 10 Writeup"
---

# Week 9 & 10   
This week the class covered mobile security, mainly using the android phone operating system. The lessons covered the mobile OS history, mobile malware genesis, android fundamentals and security features.   
### Mobile OS History   
Mobile phones have been in production for consumers since 1984. This early technology used analog phone connection. Into the 90's, mobile phones began to utilize 2G, which is digital technology for their mobile phone usage. This allowed voice to be enrypted and for SMS messaging to begin. Into the 2000's, 3G came to be which allowed for internet connection from one's phone. This technology would pave the way for smart phones to enter the marketplace which could take advantage of 3G's features. Most recently we have the advent of 4G which allows for faster data transfer.   
As mentioned, mobile phone OS's did not begin to gain prevalence until 3G was available, however, there have been mobile OS's since the early 2000's. Blackberry was one of the earliest in the market to offer a mobile phone operating system. Android first hit the markets around 2005, followed by Apple's iPhone. Windows also offers a mobile phone OS, but it is not as popular as Android or iPhone. Worldwide, Android is the mobile OS market leader.   
### Mobile Malware Genesis   
From 2000 to 2006 we begin to see the first signs of mobile malware. Beginning in August 2000, Epoc. Fake used bluetooth for malicious purposes while it pretended to format the hard drive. Next, in June 2004 we see some malware that spreads through bluetooth and uses a phone's battery. In August of the same year, we find the first mobile backdoor. In November of 2005, we get the first malware that steals sensitive data.   
Beginning in 2008 to about 2010 we see a lack of malware being released frequently. It is in this time period that smart phones are released and malware authors must become acquainted with the system to attack it. We see the first of the new wave of malware with symbian work yxes, which is the first mobile botnet. It was distributed by sending a URL through SMS which was a new way to infect others. In August 2010 we see the first android malware, FakePlayer and Tapsnake. Fakeplayer sends SMS messages to a premium number to collect money, while Tapsnake was the first Android malware to be found in the Play Store and reported coordinates to a remote server.   
### Android Fundamentals and Security Features   
Android seperates applications from each other by making sure each one can run in it's own virtual machine. This ensures security, performance and reliability. It also seperates parts of the OS from each other by having applications on one layer, application framework on another layer, libraries on their own layers, Android runtime on one layer, and the linux kernel on another. Android has it's own way of inter-process communication. It uses content providers, intents, and binders to communicate between apps. Signals, pipes, sockets and other UNIX-type utilities are limited because applications run in their own virtual machines. This allows for better security. Android apps also ask for permissions to do certain things. As of android 4.4, there were 146 permissions available. The permissions an app uses are found in the apps manifest. This is a good first start to track down malware.