---
title:  "Week 3 Writeup"
---

# Week 3

This week covered the basics of malware defense, including techniques and common tools used.
### Malware defense definition   
Malware defense is the aspect of detecting and taking measures against malware. Commonly, there are four aspects associated with malware that malware defense takes into account: first contact, local execution, establish presence, and malicious activity.   
**First contact** is when the malware gets onto the machine of a target. This could be through a usb stick that has a hidden autorun command, browsing a compromised website through a phishing attack, or even a malicious actor physically interacting with a targeted machine. To combat first contact vulnerabilities, an organization can educate users on attack vectors like phishing, blacklisting potential harmful sites, or enlisting a strict policy regarding usb sticks.   
**Local execution** is the stage when malware is on the target's machine and the malware is executed. Generally, malware executes by convincing a user to execute the program, or by executing some exploit on the machine that allows for file execution. To combat this, an organization can make it harder to execute files and block scripts within the browser. However, this could effect the user experience, so one must weight the pros and cons.   
**Establish presence** is the stage where malware attempts to estamplish persistence. It could do this by downloading more malware that will run steathily, editting the registry to allow for autorun capabilities, or tamper with programs that would seek it's deletion. At this point, the user is compromised and the best defense is to detect and remove the malware.   
**Malicious activity** is when the malware actually does what it was intended to do. This could be creating slaves for a botnet, capturing sensitive data using tools like keyloggers or man-in-the-middle attacks, or installing adware. Combating this is combating the undesired behavior itself using tools like anti-keyloggers and detecting botnets.   

### Technologies   
Some technologies used to defend against malware are firewalls, network reputation, and anti-malware.   
**Firewalls** are programs that have policies allowing or disallowing certain connections into and out of a network. Generally, there are two types. Network firewalls are firewalls that have policies regarding connections from the network itself. Host firewalls are firewalls at the host level, which is a lower level than network firewalls. This means that traffic can be screened before it even attempts to leave the network by utilizing host rules. This two pronged approach allows for more security.   
**Network reputation** is when a white list is kept of reputable or allowed sites. It can also be keeping a black list of known malicious sites. In either case, the intent is only to connect to sites that are trusted and will not harm the user or organization.   
**Anti-malware** is a term use to describe tools that are generally used to combat malware. There are various types of tools and techniques that encompass this term. For example, file scanning, cloud scanning, heuristics, and decomposition.   
**File scanning** is the old school way of a program scanning ones computer and looking for threats. This has generally fallen out of favor because programs can run and make changes without staying persistent, or changing it's name to be harder to detect.   
**Cloud scanning** is scanning in real time from the cloud. This handles instances where the malware is running and be detected.   
**Heuristics** is when the program uses patterns from previously known malware samples and seeks to locate such patterns in a current configuration. This would seek to detect variants of malware that may not be detected otherwise.   

### Tools   
Tools used for malware defense include but are not limited to:   
  * **YARA** - Used to create scripts that would detect string outliers in various programs due to rules written by a user. Rules should be long enough to detech unique strings but not so long that they detect many false positives.   
  * **Cuckoo** - Is a program that commands some virtual machines for the detection and analysis of malware. It runs the malware on the virtual machine and logs what the malware is doing in a .csv file. It is particularly usefule because it detects attempts to create a process and redirects it so it can control the created process ID.
  