---
title:  "Week 8 Writeup"
---

# Week 8   
This week covered messaging security. Topics included anti-spam history, and spam identification, and tools.   
### Anti-Spam History   
There have been numerous variations of spam throughout the history of the web. 419 phishing attacks reference the 419 international phone code that makes phishing illegal. These types of attacks try to coerce a user to click a link to steal credentials. There have also been spam attacks that seek to have a user purchase some product with the intention of stealing those financial crednentials.   
Spam has also been used to manipulate stock markets. This is called pumping and dumping, where a mass email is sent out alleging insider information and informing the recipient to purchase some stock. When the price in stock rises high enough, the spammer sells their stock and begins a selloff, which results in victims losing their investments.   
Spam has also been used to create botnets. By infecting users, malicious actors can take control of personal computers to utilize for nefarious activiies.   
### Identifying Spam   
There are many ways to ID spam. Emails can be parsed for metadata and the metadata can be analyzed for spam characteristics. Emails can also be grouped together by some element, such as timestamp, to analyze for spam.   
In Identifying spam, one must decide how much human input should be necessary as there are tradeoffs to having human input or not. For examples, humans can generally identify outliers in a dataset that may be spam that a filter will miss, however, a human's throughput is much less compared to a machine's. Fully automating detection of spam could lead to false positives that will require human input. Also, if utilizing automation, one must consider how spam is scored. There are many factors to consider when identifying spam, a user must decide what is the best case for their situation.   
### Tools
**DiG** - Stands for Domain information groper. A linux tool utilized to investigat DNS records.   
**WHOIS** - Contains IP/Domain registration information.   
**Trustedsource.org** - McAfee data on current and historic website reputations.   
**Spamhaus.org** - Widely accepted as the authoritative source of reputation data.