---
title:  "Week 6 Writeup"
---

# Week 6   
This week covered network security. Specifically, types of network security, and types of threats   
### Whitelisting   
Whitelisting is defining what one expects to occur in a network. It is a list that allows only permitted connections to occur. Things that are suspicious are not let through. This gives the defender an advantage in that it knows how connections should occur and keeps attackers guessing. It also limits the attack surface for a network.   
### Firewalls   
Firewalls are devices that sit between zones and filter traffic. They use different policies to define what is and is not allowed through to the network. They work with different zones as well, such as internet, intranet, DMZ and others. They are useful for describing polocy from IP to IP.   
### Gateways   
Web gateways proxy connextions to apply a policy to the connection. This can occur in the network directly or in the cloud. This allows the network to inspect web content for malicious activity and makes it easier to secure the network. They can also utilize web principles to inform the user of activity.   
Email gateways work similarly but proxy connections through SMTP. This can also be in the cloud or on the premises. It was invented to combat spam, but it can also be used to scan for malware and protection of personal data.
### Man-in-the-Middle Attacks   
This is an attack when a message from point A to point B is intercepted at some point between them, i, and is either modified or simply observed. This can be used to steal credentials or enforce network rules. A blackhat could use this type of attack to modify a TCP packet for his or her own purposes. However, a network administrator could use it to terminate a TCP connection with a suspicious host. SSL/TLS have been implemented to protect against these attacks.    
### Hidden Data Transmissions   
These are ways an attacker sends information in unintended ways. They tend to be very low bandwidth to prevent detection. Some exampls include TCPISNs, ACK sequence numbers and IP ID. In this way they tend to hide in plain site. Proxys can be used to combat this, since it bounces transmissions with another network.   
